apre    tone aosc, kfreq * koct1 * 5.0        ; the shaper never sees the whole
                                              ;   oscillator. Fed a full saw a
                                              ;   memoryless shaper can only REDRAW it:
                                              ;   for a ramp input the output waveform
                                              ;   IS the transfer curve, and a saw
                                              ;   already carries every harmonic at
                                              ;   1/n. Measured over the whole bounded
                                              ;   region of distort1: on the raw saw
                                              ;   every setting takes every partial
                                              ;   DOWN at equal loudness. A real
                                              ;   overdrive's clipper sits behind a
                                              ;   band limit, and on a synth behind the
                                              ;   filter -- so this one does too.
adrv    distort1 apre, 16, 1, 0, -0.4, 2      ; imode 2: the shapes are relative to the
                                              ;   pregain, and at shape1 = shape2 = 0
                                              ;   distort1 IS tanh(pregain * x). The
                                              ;   two shapes are its departure from
                                              ;   tanh, one per half-wave. tanh is an
                                              ;   ODD function, so its even part is
                                              ;   identically zero and it can never put
                                              ;   an even harmonic into a waveform that
                                              ;   has none: on the triangle it lifts the
                                              ;   odd partials and leaves even/odd at
                                              ;   0.000. kshape2 -0.4 folds the negative
                                              ;   half differently from the positive
                                              ;   one, and even/odd goes to 0.255.
adrv    balance adrv, aosc, 1                 ; ONE bright version, matched to the clean
                                              ;   one ONCE, then crossfaded -- the
                                              ;   pattern the host asks for. Balancing a
                                              ;   MOVING drive instead let the follower
                                              ;   run inside the waveform period: at
                                              ;   55 Hz its 10 Hz ripple lands on 110 Hz
                                              ;   and manufactured 5.5 dB of second
                                              ;   harmonic that the curve never made.
adrv    = aosc * (1 - kdrive) + adrv * kdrive
